README.md, before:

# Learning towards Minimum Hyperspherical Energy

By Weiyang Liu*, Rongmei Lin*, Zhen Liu*, Lixin Liu*, Zhiding Yu, Bo Dai, Le Song

### License
MHE and SphereFace+ are released under the MIT License (refer to the LICENSE file for details).

### Contents
0. [Introduction](#introduction)
0. [Citation](#citation)
0. [Requirements](#requirements)
0. [Usage](#usage)
0. [Results](#results)
0. [SphereFace+ for face recognition](#sphereface-plus)
0. [Generative Adversarial Networks with MHE](#MHE-GAN)
0. [Note](#note)


### Introduction

The repository contains the tensorflow implementation of Minimum Hyperspherical Energy (MHE) and Caffe implementation of SphereFace+. MHE is a simple plug-in regularization for neural networks, which enchances the neuron diversity on hyperspher and therefore improves the network's generalization ability. Our paper is available at [arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/1805.09298).


### Citation

If you find our work useful in your research, please consider to cite:

    @article{LiuNIPS18,
      title={Learning towards Minimum Hyperspherical Energy},
      author={Liu, Weiyang and Lin, Rongmei and Liu, Zhen and Liu, Lixin and Yu, Zhiding and Dai, Bo and Song, Le},
      journal={NIPS},
      year={2018}
      }

### Requirements
1. `Python 3.6` (`Python 2.7` needs to modify the unpickle funtion in train.py)
2. `TensorFlow`
3. `Keras` (for MHE-GAN)
4. `numpy`

### Usage

#### Part 1: Clone the repositary
  - Clone the repositary.

	```Shell
	git clone https://github.com/wy1iu/MHE.git
	```
	
#### Part 2: Download CIFAR-100 training and testing data
  - For the current code, we use our own data pre-processing code, and it is the standard pre-processing for CIFAR-100. The training and testing data can be downloaded via [google drive](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1DA1J7tuloqyPKW-zdYEPJCipZ5HJv-5Y). Users should put the downloaded data to the `MHE_ROOT` directory.
  

#### Part 3: CIFAR-100
  - Train and test the model with the following code:

	```Shell
	cd $MHE_ROOT/code
	python train.py --model_name=mhe --power_s=0
	```
  - The parameters include `model_name: [baseline, mhe, half_mhe]` and `power_s: [0, 1, 2, a0, a1, a2]`. `mhe` denotes the full-space MHE regularization, `half_mhe` represents the half-space MHE, and `power_s` is the parameter s (see equation 1 in the paper) to control the formulation of MHE (`0,1,2` are the Euclidean distance, and `a0,a1,a2` use the angles).
  - For different datasets, you may need adjuest to hyperparameter for the entire MHE regularizaiton.
### Results
  - See the `log` folder for the expected results.
  
### SphereFace-plus

SphereFace+ is an improved deep face recognition algorithm based on [SphereFace](https://github.com/wy1iu/sphereface). We incorporate the MHE regularization to the original SphereFace and further boost the recognition accuracy. is implemented in Caffe and therefore is independently host [here](https://github.com/wy1iu/sphereface-plus).

### MHE-GAN
The weight files are provided at [Google Drive](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1mj66LK6MRiVvNGdfASNO6v6GWW3FV3ST). Please place the model files under the `snapshots` folder in the corresponding experiment folders.

To train a model from scratch, simply run `python train.py`. To test the best models we provide, run `python test.py`.

For the model trained with both MHE (half-space, magnitude 1e-7) and spectral normalization (located in `MHE-GAN/sn-model`), we obtained the inception score of **7.68**, which is much higher than we originally reported in the paper. In contrast, the same GAN with only spectral normalization yields **7.4** inception score and the baseline GAN only achieves **6.64**.

### Note
  - All the results in the paper can be reproduced using this code. For the GAN applciation in Appendix, we use the [official spectral normalization implementation](https://github.com/pfnet-research/chainer-gan-lib) and directly plug in our MHE regularization.

Commit message:

added mhe-only MHE-GAN

README.md, after:

# Learning towards Minimum Hyperspherical Energy

By Weiyang Liu*, Rongmei Lin*, Zhen Liu*, Lixin Liu*, Zhiding Yu, Bo Dai, Le Song

### License
MHE and SphereFace+ are released under the MIT License (refer to the LICENSE file for details).

### Contents
0. [Introduction](#introduction)
0. [Citation](#citation)
0. [Requirements](#requirements)
0. [Usage](#usage)
0. [Results](#results)
0. [SphereFace+ for face recognition](#sphereface-plus)
0. [Generative Adversarial Networks with MHE](#MHE-GAN)
0. [Note](#note)


### Introduction

The repository contains the tensorflow implementation of Minimum Hyperspherical Energy (MHE) and Caffe implementation of SphereFace+. MHE is a simple plug-in regularization for neural networks, which enchances the neuron diversity on hyperspher and therefore improves the network's generalization ability. Our paper is available at [arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/1805.09298).


### Citation

If you find our work useful in your research, please consider to cite:

    @article{LiuNIPS18,
      title={Learning towards Minimum Hyperspherical Energy},
      author={Liu, Weiyang and Lin, Rongmei and Liu, Zhen and Liu, Lixin and Yu, Zhiding and Dai, Bo and Song, Le},
      journal={NIPS},
      year={2018}
      }

### Requirements
1. `Python 3.6` (`Python 2.7` needs to modify the unpickle funtion in train.py)
2. `TensorFlow`
3. `Keras` (for MHE-GAN)
4. `numpy`

### Usage

#### Part 1: Clone the repositary
  - Clone the repositary.

	```Shell
	git clone https://github.com/wy1iu/MHE.git
	```
	
#### Part 2: Download CIFAR-100 training and testing data
  - For the current code, we use our own data pre-processing code, and it is the standard pre-processing for CIFAR-100. The training and testing data can be downloaded via [google drive](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1DA1J7tuloqyPKW-zdYEPJCipZ5HJv-5Y). Users should put the downloaded data to the `MHE_ROOT` directory.
  

#### Part 3: CIFAR-100
  - Train and test the model with the following code:

	```Shell
	cd $MHE_ROOT/code
	python train.py --model_name=mhe --power_s=0
	```
  - The parameters include `model_name: [baseline, mhe, half_mhe]` and `power_s: [0, 1, 2, a0, a1, a2]`. `mhe` denotes the full-space MHE regularization, `half_mhe` represents the half-space MHE, and `power_s` is the parameter s (see equation 1 in the paper) to control the formulation of MHE (`0,1,2` are the Euclidean distance, and `a0,a1,a2` use the angles).
  - For different datasets, you may need adjuest to hyperparameter for the entire MHE regularizaiton.
### Results
  - See the `log` folder for the expected results.
  
### SphereFace-plus

SphereFace+ is an improved deep face recognition algorithm based on [SphereFace](https://github.com/wy1iu/sphereface). We incorporate the MHE regularization to the original SphereFace and further boost the recognition accuracy. is implemented in Caffe and therefore is independently host [here](https://github.com/wy1iu/sphereface-plus).

### MHE-GAN
The weight files are provided at [Google Drive](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1mj66LK6MRiVvNGdfASNO6v6GWW3FV3ST). Please place the model files under the `snapshots` folder in the corresponding experiment folders.

To train a model from scratch, simply run `python train.py`. To test the best models we provide, run `python test.py`.

For the model trained with both MHE (half-space, magnitude 1e-7) and spectral normalization (located in `MHE-GAN/sn-model`), we obtained the inception score of **7.68**, which is much higher than we originally reported in the paper. In contrast, the same GAN with only spectral normalization yields **7.4** inception score and the baseline GAN only achieves **6.64**.

For the model trained with only MHE (half-space, magnitude 1e-6, located in `MHE-GAN/non-sn-model`), we obtained the inception score of **7.48**, which is also much higher than we originally reported in the paper.

### Note
  - All the results in the paper can be reproduced using this code.
  - The codes were tested on tensorflow of versions >= 1.10. For earlier versions, the code for computing inception score might report wrong inception scores due to bugs in tf.contrib.gan.
